docs: format_name (#13409)
datafuselabs/databend: docs/doc/13-sql-reference/50-file-format-options.md

title: Input & Output File Formats
---

Databend accepts a variety of file formats both as a source and as a target for data loading or unloading. For example, you can load data into Databend from a file with the [COPY INTO table command](../14-sql-commands/10-dml/dml-copy-into-table.md) or the Streaming Load API. You can also unload data from Databend into a file with the [COPY INTO location command](../14-sql-commands/10-dml/dml-copy-into-location.md) command. 

## Syntax

To specify a file format in a statement, use the following syntax:

```sql
-- Specify a standard file format
... FILE_FORMAT = ( TYPE = { CSV | TSV | NDJSON | PARQUET | XML } [ formatTypeOptions ] )

-- Specify a custom file format
... FILE_FORMAT = ( FORMAT_NAME = '<your-custom-format>' )
```

- Databend currently supports XML as a source ONLY. Unloading data into an XML file is not supported yet.

> - If FILE_FORMAT is not explicitly specified, the default format used is PARQUET.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

the rule of FILE_FORMAT to be used is as follows:

1. try use the FILE_FORMAT in select/copy if exists
2. try use the FILE_FORMAT in `create stage` if a stage is related. if FILE_FORMAT not specified when `create stage`, it is `PARQUET` by default.
3. use PARQUET
```

Author: If you don't specify the FILE_FORMAT when you COPY INTO or SELECT data from a stage, Databend will use the file format that you initially defined for the stage when you created it. In cases where you didn't explicitly specify a file format during the stage creation, Databend defaults to using the PARQUET format. If you specify a different FILE_FORMAT from the one you defined when creating the stage, Databend will prioritize the FILE_FORMAT specified during the operation.
